
# Microsoft Movie Studio Analysis 

Microsoft has decided to venture into the film industry.Having created a new movie studio and with no information into this particular brand of business,there's need for actionable insight.This is necessary to give Microsoft a guideline into what movies to make and what markets to explore.


## Authors

- [Ben Ochoro](https://github.com/Be-hub-afk)


## Business Problem
Microsoft need guidance in creation of original video content and navigating the film industry having invested into a new movie studio.Due to the company's lack of prior knowledge in film production,this project explores the various types of film genres currently doing well in the box office inorder to give insight to head of Microsoft's new movie studio on what movies they should create.
## Data
The datasets below were used for this analysis and were acquired from IMDB :

*bom.movie_gross

*imdb.title.ratings

*imdb.title.basics


## Questions to answer
1. Which genres of movies had the highest average ratings?
2. Which genres generated the highest gross incomes in both domestic and foreign markets?
3. The total count of movies released per genre?
4. Gross income by the year?
5. Correlation between the average rating and gross income?
## Methods
This project employed exploratory data analysis. The steps taken to achieve useful insights include importing the required libraries and loading the datasets, data understanding, data cleaning and data visualization.
## Findings
Drama ,comedy and action genres had the most movies released while the genres with the least movies were News ,musical and western genres.


The average rating and the total gross income do not have a clearly defined correlation or effect on one another . We can however see that movies with the low average ratings had an equally low total gross income as compared to those with average and above average average ratings.


The genres that generated the highest gross income are Sci-Fi,Adventure and Animation genres.War,Documentary and Romance genres had the least total gross income generated.


The genres with the highest average ratings are Documentary and Biography while least average rated genres are horror and thriller. The distribution of the average ratings per genre as is really close.


2018 experienced a peak in gross income in both domestic and foreign markets ,which resulted to a relative peak in the total gross income.


After 2018,there was a sharp drop in gross income levels in both domestic and foreign markets .
## Conclusion
1. The highest gross income is generated by Sci-Fi,Adventure and Animation genres.These are common and wildly popular.

2. War,Documentary and Romance genres had the least total gross income generated gross income.

3. Most number of movies were produced in the Drama ,comedy and action categories .However we can argue that these are popular movie genres.The least released movie genres are News,Musical and western genres.

4. The average rating and the total gross income do not have a clearly defined correlation or effect on one another . We can however see that movies with the low average ratings had an equally low total gross income as compared to those with average and above average average ratings.

5. The start_year 2018 experienced a peak in gross income in both domestic and foreign markets ,which resulted to a relative peak in the total gross income.

6. After 2018,there was a sharp drop in gross income levels in both domestic and foreign markets,resulting to a relative drop in total gross in both markets.
## Summary
The analysis focuses on what type of movies are currently doing well and use the information to make a recommendation to Microsoft as to what type of movies to make in the new production studio.The parameters used for this analysis such as gross income are affected by other multiple parameters such as marketing ,advertisement,budget which can give further insight into what into predicting what direction to take.
## For More Information
See the full analysis in the Jupyter Notebook or review this presentation. For additional information, contact author.             